# PTO-Calculator
Paid Time Off Calculator for NWCC
 Paid time off is a huge incentive for employees at Northwest Christian Childcare (http://www.northwestchristianchildcare.org/) to come to work on time every day and work all the hours the employee is scheduled.  At Northwest Christian Childcare there are issues where people are earning paid time off when they shouldn’t because the system is monitored by people who are not following the rules. The way the incentive system works is that for each time an employee works the full pay cycle, the employee earns a specific amount of paid time off. Instead of having someone keep track of this and make decisions based off a spread sheet, the PTO calculator program takes over this responsibility. The way it does this is by taking in the spread sheet as a data file and breaking down information by employee. Then, it calculates whether the employee should receive paid time off and what to do if the employee is not hitting compliance hours. The program is versatile because it has options to look at in depth information based on a single employee, or calculate all the employees’ PTO for the pay cycle in one “run” of the program.  It is completely function based and easy to use, read, and change based on the situation. Input: Spread sheet of employee data Main 
Outputs: Employee, Straight Hours, Overtime Hours, Total Hours, Hours Scheduled, Warning, PTO Calculation, PTO Bank Status. 
(There are other mini inputs inside of the functions that are called, but they are irrelevant to the user). 
 
